HOWTO: Replicas & HA (#750)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/how-to-guides/replication-and-ha/configure-replication.md

# Configure Replication
This section outlines how to set up asynchronous streaming replication on one or

> more database replicas.

Author: @charislam Did you miss this file when you were reviewing? (I doubt my first draft is *that* good 😉 )

Reviewer: Oh yes I did! Thank you!

might require greater consistency between the primary and replicas, especially
if you have a heavy workload. Under heavy workloads, replicas can lag far behind
the primary, providing stale data to clients reading from the replicas.
Additionally, in cases where any data loss is fatal, asynchronous replication
might not provide enough of a durability guarantee. The PostgreSQL
[`synchronous_commit`][postgres-synchronous-commit-docs] feature has several
options with varying consistency and performance tradeoffs.

In the `postgresql.conf` file, set the `synchronous_commit` parameter to:

*   `on`: This is the default value. The server does not return `success` until
    the WAL transaction has been written to disk on the primary and any
    replicas.
*   `off`: The server returns `success` when the WAL transaction has been sent
    to the operating system to write to the WAL on disk on the primary, but
    does not wait for the operating system to actually write it. This can cause
    a small amount of data loss if the server crashes when some data has not
    been written, but it does not result in data corruption. Turning

>     `synchronous_commit` off is a well known PostgreSQL optimization for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `synchronous_commit` off is a well-known PostgreSQL optimization for
```

*   `local`: Enforces `on` behavior only on the primary server.
*   `remote_write`: The database returns `success` to a client when the WAL
    record has been sent to the operating system for writing to the WAL on the
    replicas, but before confirmation that the record has actually been
    persisted to disk. This is similar to asynchronous commit, except it waits
    for the replicas as well as the primary. In practice, the extra wait time
    incurred waiting for the replicas significantly decreases replication lag.
*   `remote_apply`: Requires confirmation that the WAL records have been written
    to the WAL and applied to the databases on all replicas. This provides the
    strongest consistency of any of the `synchronous_commit` options. In this
    mode, replicas always reflect the latest state of the primary, and
    replication lag is nearly non-existent.

<highlight type="important">
If `synchronous_standby_names` is empty, the settings `on`, `remote_apply`,
`remote_write` and `local` all provide the same synchronization level, and
transaction commits wait for the local flush to disk.
</highlight>

> This matrix shows the level of consistency each mode provides:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This matrix shows the level of consistency provided by each mode:
```

|Mode|WAL Sent to OS (Primary)|WAL Persisted (Primary)|WAL Sent to OS (Primary & Replicas)|WAL Persisted (Primary & Replicas)|Transaction Applied (Primary & Replicas)|
|-|-|-|-|-|-|
|Off|✅|❌|❌|❌|❌|
|Local|✅|✅|❌|❌|❌|
|Remote Write|✅|✅|✅|❌|❌|
|On|✅|✅|✅|✅|❌|
|Remote Apply|✅|✅|✅|✅|✅|

The `synchronous_standby_names` setting is a complementary setting to
`synchronous_commit`. It lists the names of all replicas the primary database
supports for synchronous replication, and configures how the primary database
waits for them. The `synchronous_standby_names` setting supports these formats:

> *   `FIRST num_sync (replica_name_1, replica_name_2)`: This waits for

Reviewer: I find the syntax not totally clear here. I would guess that `num_sync` is an integer from the description, but I wouldn't be certain. An example may help?

the `synchronous_commit` level. This could cause the primary to hang
indefinitely if a required replica crashes. When the replica reconnects, it
replays any of the WAL it needs to catch up. Only then is the primary able to
resume writes. To mitigate this, provision more than the amount of nodes
required under the `synchronous_standby_names` setting and list them in the
`FIRST` or `ANY` clauses. This allows the primary to move forward as long as a
quorum of replicas have written the most recent WAL transaction. Replicas that
were out of service are able to reconnect and replay the missed WAL transactions
asynchronously.

## Replication diagnostics
The PostgreSQL [pg_stat_replication][postgres-pg-stat-replication-docs] view
provides information about each replica. This view is particularly useful for
calculating replication lag, which measures how far behind the primary the
current state of the replica is. The `replay_lag` field gives a measure of the
seconds between the most recent WAL transaction on the primary, and the last
reported database commit on the replica. Coupled with `write_lag` and
`flush_lag`, this provides insight into how far behind the replica is. The

> `*_lsn` fields also come in handy, allowing you to compare WAL locations between

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`*_lsn` fields also provide helpful information. They allow you to compare WAL locations between
```

the primary and the replicas. The `state` field is useful for determining
exactly what each replica is currently doing; the available modes are `startup`,
`catchup`, `streaming`, `backup`, and `stopping`.

To see the data, on the primary database, run this command:
```sql

> select * from pg_stat_replication;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT * FROM pg_stat_replication;
```

client_hostname  |
client_port      | 59610
backend_start    | 2018-02-07 19:07:15.261213+00
backend_xmin     |
state            | streaming
sent_lsn         | 16B/43DB36A8
write_lsn        | 16B/43DB36A8
flush_lsn        | 16B/43DB36A8
replay_lsn       | 16B/43107C28
write_lag        | 00:00:00.009966
flush_lag        | 00:00:00.03208
replay_lag       | 00:00:00.43537
sync_priority    | 2
sync_state       | sync
-[ RECORD 2 ]----+------------------------------
pid              | 54498
usesysid         | 16384
usename          | repuser
application_name | r1
client_addr      | 10.0.13.5
client_hostname  |
client_port      | 43402
backend_start    | 2018-02-07 19:45:41.410929+00
backend_xmin     |
state            | streaming
sent_lsn         | 16B/43DB36A8
write_lsn        | 16B/43DB36A8
flush_lsn        | 16B/43DB36A8
replay_lsn       | 16B/42C3B9C8
write_lag        | 00:00:00.019736
flush_lag        | 00:00:00.044073
replay_lag       | 00:00:00.644004
sync_priority    | 1
sync_state       | sync
```

## Failover
PostgreSQL provides some failover functionality, where the replica is promoted
to  primary in the event of a failure. This is provided using the

> [pg_ctl][pgctl-docs] command, or the `trigger_file`. However, PostgreSQL does

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[pg_ctl][pgctl-docs] command or the `trigger_file`. However, PostgreSQL does
```
